now the Ark of the Lord was in the
country of the Philistines seven months
and the Philistines called for the
priests and the dividers what shall we
do with the Ark of the Lord tell us how
we should send it to its place
if you send away the Ark of the God of
Israel do not send it empty but by all
means return it to him with a trespass
offering then you will be healed and it
will be known to you why his hand is not
removed from you
what is the trespass offering which we
shall return to him five golden tumors
and five golden rats according to the
number of the Lords of the Philistines
for the same leg was on all of you and
on your Lords therefore you shall make
images of your tumors and images of your
rats that ravage the land and you shall
give glory to the God of Israel perhaps
he will lighten his hand from you from
your gods and from your land why then do
you harden your hearts as the Egyptians
and Pharaoh hardened their hearts when
he did mighty things among them did they
not let the people go that they might
depart now therefore make a new cart
take two milk cows which have never been
yoked and hitched the cows to the cart
and take their calves home away from
them then take the Ark of the Lord and
set it on the cart
and put the articles of gold which you
are returning to him as a trespass
offering in a chest by its side then
send it away and let it go and watch if
it goes up the road to its own territory
to Beth Shemesh then he has done us this
great evil but if not then we shall know
that it is not his hand that struck us
it happened to us by chance then the men
did so they took two milk cows and
hitched them to the cart and shut up
their calves at home and they set the
Ark of the Lord on the cart and the
chest with the gold rats and the images
of their tumors then the cows headed
straight for the road to best shemish
and went along the highway
lowing as they went and did not turn
aside to the right hand or the left and
the Lords of the Philistines went after
them to the border of best shemish
the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping
their wheat harvest in the valley and
they lifted their eyes and saw the ark
and rejoiced to see then the cart came
into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh
in stood there the large stone was there
so they split the wood of the cart and
offered the cows as a burnt offering to
the Lord
the Levites took down the Ark of the
Lord and the chest that was with in
which were the articles of gold and put
them on the large stone then the men of
best shemish offered burnt offerings and
made sacrifices the same day to the Lord
so when the five Lords of the
Philistines had seen it they returned to
eccrine the same day these are the
golden tumors which the Philistines
returned as a trespass offering to the
Lord
one for Ashdod one for Gaza one for
Ashkelon one for Gath
one for Accra and the golden rats
according to the number of all the
cities of the Philistines belonging to
the five Lords for fortified cities and
country villages even as far as the
large stone of Abel on which they set
the Ark of the Lord which stone remains
to this day in the field of Joshua of
Beth Shemesh then he struck the men of
beth shemesh because they had looked
into the park of the Lord he struck
fifty thousand and seventy men of the
people and the people lamented because
the Lord had struck the people with a
good slaughter and the men of beth
shemesh said who is able to stand before
this holy Lord God and to whom shall it
go up from us so they sent messengers to
the inhabitants of courage as ji'er
the Philistines have brought back the
Ark of the Lord come down and take it up
with you
you